Last login: Wed Nov  8 13:04:44 on console
You have new mail.
tagamidaiki:~ tagamidaiki$ xcode-select --install
xcode-select: error: command line tools are already installed, use "Software Update" to install updates
tagamidaiki:~ tagamidaiki$ ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
==> This script will install:
/usr/local/bin/brew
/usr/local/share/doc/homebrew
/usr/local/share/man/man1/brew.1
/usr/local/share/zsh/site-functions/_brew
/usr/local/etc/bash_completion.d/brew
/usr/local/Homebrew

Press RETURN to continue or any other key to abort
==> /usr/bin/sudo /bin/mkdir -p /Library/Caches/Homebrew
Password:
==> /usr/bin/sudo /bin/chmod g+rwx /Library/Caches/Homebrew
==> /usr/bin/sudo /usr/sbin/chown tagamidaiki /Library/Caches/Homebrew
You have not agreed to the Xcode license.
Before running the installer again please agree to the license by opening
Xcode.app or running:
    sudo xcodebuild -license
tagamidaiki:~ tagamidaiki$ sudo port uninstall ruby
Password:
sudo: port: command not found
tagamidaiki:~ tagamidaiki$ sudo xcodebuild -license


You have not agreed to the Xcode license agreements. You must agree to both license agreements below in order to use Xcode.

Hit the Enter key to view the license agreements at '/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Resources/English.lproj/License.rtf'

Apple Inc.

Xcode and Apple SDKs Agreement

PLEASE SCROLL DOWN AND READ ALL OF THE FOLLOWING TERMS AND CONDITIONS CAREFULLY BEFORE USING THE APPLE SOFTWARE OR APPLE SERVICES.  THIS IS A LEGAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN YOU AND APPLE.  IF YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS, CLICK THE “AGREE” BUTTON.  BY CLICKING “AGREE” OR BY DOWNLOADING, USING OR COPYING ANY PART OF THIS APPLE SOFTWARE OR USING ANY PART OF THE APPLE SERVICES, YOU ARE AGREEING ON YOUR OWN BEHALF AND/OR ON BEHALF OF YOUR COMPANY OR ORGANIZATION TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS STATED BELOW.  IF YOU DO NOT OR CANNOT AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT, YOU CANNOT USE THIS APPLE SOFTWARE OR THE APPLE SERVICES.  DO NOT DOWNLOAD OR USE THIS APPLE SOFTWARE OR APPLE SERVICES IN THAT CASE.

1.      Definitions
Whenever capitalized in this Agreement:

“Agreement” means this Xcode and Apple SDKs Agreement.

“Apple” means Apple Inc., a California corporation with its principal place of business at One Infinite Loop, Cupertino, California 95014, U.S.A.

“Apple Developer Program License Agreement” means a separate agreement that may be entered into between You and Apple regarding the development and submission of Applications to the App Store for approval and digital signing by Apple, development of libraries for iOS, watchOS, and/or tvOS, and the use of Apple services such as the Apple Push Notification Service, In-App Purchase, and iCloud, among other things.

“Apple Maps Service” means the mapping platform and Map Data provided by Apple via the MapKit API (which is the documented API that enables You to add mapping features or functionality to Applications).  

“Apple Services” or “Services” means the developer services that Apple provides to You under this Agreement solely for use with Your Applications and not for use by You as an end-user (e.g., Game Center, Apple Maps Service, any Apple-certificate issuance services, etc.), including any Updates thereto (if any) that may be provided to You by Apple.  

“Apple Software” means the Xcode Developer Tools and the Apple SDKs, including any Updates thereto (if any) that may be provided to You by Apple.

“Apple SDKs” means the macOS SDK, and the Apple-proprietary Software Development Kits (SDKs) provided hereunder, including but not limited to header files, APIs, libraries, simulators, and software (source code and object code) labeled as part of the iOS SDK, watchOS SDK and/or tvOS SDK and included in the Xcode Developer Tools package for purposes of targeting Apple-branded products running iOS, watchOS, or tvOS.
 
“Application” means a software program (including extensions and media that are enclosed in a single software bundle) developed by You hereunder, for use under Your own name, trademark or brand, and specifically for use on Apple-branded products running macOS, iOS, watchOS, tvOS, as applicable, including new releases and new versions of such software program, but excluding libraries for iOS, watchOS, or tvOS applications.  

For clarity, the term Application as used in this Agreement excludes libraries that are for use in Applications designed for iOS, watchOS, or tvOS.  Such libraries can be developed by You only under the terms of the Apple Developer Program License Agreement.  

“Authorized Developers” means Your employees and contractors, members of Your organization or, if You are an educational institution, Your faculty, staff and students, who: (a) have a demonstrable need to know or use the Apple Software or Apple Services in order to develop and test Applications, and (b) to the extent they will access Apple Confidential Information, have written and binding agreements with You that prohibit the unauthorized use and disclosure of such confidential information.

“Authorized Test Units” means Apple-branded hardware units owned or controlled by You that have been designated by You for Your own testing and development purposes, and, if You permit, Apple-branded hardware units owned or controlled by Your Authorized Developers so long as such units are used for testing and development purposes on Your behalf and only as permitted hereunder. 

“Documentation” means the technical or other specifications or documentation that Apple may provide to You for use in connection with the Apple Software, Apple Services, Apple certificates, or as otherwise provided hereunder. 

“FOSS” (Free and Open Source Software) means any software that is subject to terms that, as a condition of use, copying, modification or redistribution, require such software and/or derivative works thereof to be disclosed or distributed in source code form, to be licensed for the purpose of making derivative works, or to be redistributed free of charge, including without limitation software distributed under the GNU General Public License or GNU Lesser/Library GPL.

“macOS SDK” means the Apple-proprietary Software Development Kits (SDKs) provided hereunder, including but not limited to header files, APIs, libraries, simulators, and software (source code and object code) labeled as part of the macOS SDK and included in the Xcode Developer Tools package for purposes of targeting Apple-branded products running macOS.
 
“Map Data” means any content, data or information provided through the Apple Maps Service including, but not limited to, imagery, terrain data, latitude and longitude coordinates, transit data, points of interest and traffic data. 

“Program Requirements” mean the technical, human interface, design, product category, security, performance, and other criteria and requirements for Applications specified by Apple in the Apple Developer Program License Agreement.  

“Provisioning Profiles” means the time-limited files (including applicable entitlements, certificates or other identifiers) that may be provided by Apple for use by You in connection with Your Application development and testing.

“Updates” means bug fixes, updates, upgrades, modifications, enhancements and supplements to the Apple Software or Apple Services, and any new releases or versions thereof.

“Xcode Developer Tools” means the Apple-proprietary development platform, including but not limited to software tools, compilers, sample code, Documentation, programming languages, and overall design package provided by Apple hereunder, excluding the Apple SDKs.

“You” or “Your” means the person(s) or entity using the Apple Software or Services or otherwise exercising rights under this Agreement.  If You are entering into this Agreement on behalf of Your company, organization, educational institution, or an agency, instrumentality, or department of the federal government, “You” or “Your” refers to your company, organization, educational institution or agency, instrumentality, or department of the federal government as well.

2.      Internal Use License and Restrictions
2.1     Authority to Enter into Agreements 
You certify to Apple that You have the right and authority to enter into this Agreement on Your own behalf, or if You are entering into this Agreement on behalf of Your company, organization, educational institution, or agency, instrumentality, or department of the federal government, that You have the right and authority to legally bind such entity or organization to the terms and obligations of this Agreement.  Further, You agree to comply with the terms of and fulfill Your obligations under this Agreement, including obtaining any required consents for Your Authorized Developers’ use of the Apple Software and Services (e.g., as part of Your Applications), and You agree to monitor and be fully responsible for all such use by Your Authorized Developers and their compliance with the terms of this Agreement.  You acknowledge that You will be solely responsible for all costs, expenses, losses and liabilities incurred, and activities undertaken by You and Your Authorized Developers in connection with the Apple Software and Apple Services, Your Applications and Your related development and limited distribution efforts.  

2.2     Permitted Uses and Restrictions
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Apple hereby grants You during the Term, a limited, non-exclusive, personal, revocable, non-sublicensable, non-transferable, and internal use license to:

A.      Install a reasonable number of copies of the Apple Software on Apple-branded computers that are owned or controlled by You to be used internally by You or Your Authorized Developers only as follows:

(i)     You may use the Xcode Developer Tools to test and develop application and other software; 

(ii)    You may use the macOS SDKs to test and develop application and other software;

(iii)   You may use the Apple SDKs (excluding the macOS SDK) solely to test and develop Applications that are specifically for use with the applicable Apple-branded products for which the SDK is targeted, unless otherwise permitted by Apple in writing; and

(iv)    You may use the Apple Services solely to test and develop Applications that are specifically for use on Apple-branded products, unless otherwise permitted by Apple in writing.

Except as otherwise expressly set forth in Section 2.2.B., You may not distribute any Applications developed using the Apple SDKs (excluding the macOS SDK) absent entering into a separate written agreement with Apple. 

B.      Use Provisioning Profiles to install Your Applications onto a reasonable, limited number of Authorized Test Units solely for use by You and/or Your Authorized Developers and only for internal testing and development of Your Applications, or for Your own personal, non-commercial use.  

Apple reserves the right to limit the number of Authorized Test Units that You may provision for iOS, watch OS, and tvOS as well as the number of Authorized Developers (and Apple IDs) that You may register with the Apple Software for such provisioning.  You agree to be solely responsible for determining which Authorized Developers in Your company or organization should have access to and use of Your Applications and such Authorized Test Units.  You agree to clearly inform Your Authorized Developers that Your Applications that are deployed using Your Provisioning Profiles are to be used only by them (and not by any third parties) and are solely for use for internal testing and development purposes on Your behalf.  You will be responsible for attaching or otherwise including, at Your discretion, any relevant usage terms for such Applications.  Apple will not be responsible for any violations of Your usage terms.  You will be solely responsible for all user assistance, warranty and support of Your Applications that are deployed by You under this Agreement. 

2.3     Apple IDs
You agree to register only a reasonable number of Apple IDs in the Apple Software and Apple Services for deployment and provisioning purposes.  You agree to ensure that such Apple IDs are associated with You or Your Authorized Developers.  You agree that all information provided to Apple by You or Your Authorized Developers in obtaining such Apple IDs or entering them into the Apple Software or Services will be current, true, accurate, supportable and complete.  You agree not to fraudulently misrepresent or improperly acquire more Apple IDs than are necessary for Your own reasonable testing and development purposes.  You understand that Apple may disable Your right to use Apple IDs within the Apple Software or may revoke Your Provisioning Profiles at any time in its sole discretion (e.g., if Apple suspects fraudulent or malicious activity with Your use of the Apple Software or Services).

2.4     Apple Developer Program 
If You would like a third-party to use Your Application for iOS, watchOS or tvOS, or You would like to distribute Your Application for macOS through the App Store, then You must enter into a separate written agreement with Apple (the Apple Developer Program License Agreement) and Your Application must comply with the Program Requirements and Documentation.  Information regarding the Program Requirements is available at:  http://developer.apple.com/programs/ios/information/index.html.  Apple reserves the right to change the Program Requirements and/or the terms of the Apple Developer Program License Agreement from time to time.  You are fully responsible for any and all costs, expenses or other liabilities You may incur as a result of Your development or use of the Apple Software or Services.  For clarity, macOS applications and libraries may be distributed without entering into a separate written agreement with Apple so long as such applications and libraries comply with the terms of this Agreement.

2.5     Copies  
You agree to retain and reproduce in full the Apple copyright, disclaimers and other proprietary notices in all copies of the Apple Software that You are permitted to make under this Agreement.  For clarity, You may copy only the entire package or piece of the Apple Software and Services in its entirety and only for use as permitted herein.  You may not alter the Apple Software or Services in any way in such copy, e.g., You are expressly prohibited from separately using the Apple SDKs or attempting to run any part of the Apple Software on non-Apple-branded hardware.  Images contained in the Documentation may not be separately copied or used outside of the Documentation. 

2.6      Ownership
Apple retains all rights, title, and interest in and to the Apple Software and Apple Services.  The parties acknowledge that this Agreement does not give Apple any ownership interest in Your Applications.

2.7     Restrictions; No Other Permitted Uses
The grants set forth in this Agreement do not permit You to, and You agree not to, install, use or run the Apple Software or Apple Services on any non-Apple-branded computer or device, or to enable others to do so.  This Agreement does not allow the Apple Software or Services to be made available over a network where they could be run or used by multiple computers at the same time, unless otherwise expressly permitted in writing by Apple.  Further, unless otherwise expressly permitted by Apple in writing, You agree not to rent, lease, lend, upload to or host on any website or server, sell, redistribute, or sublicense the Apple Software and Apple Services, in whole or in part, or to enable others to do so.  You may not use the Apple Software and Apple Services for any purpose not expressly permitted by this Agreement.  You may not and You agree not to, or to enable others to, copy (except as expressly permitted under this Agreement), decompile, reverse engineer, disassemble, attempt to derive the source code of, modify, decrypt, or create derivative works of the Apple Software or Services, or any part thereof (except as and only to the extent any foregoing restriction is prohibited by applicable law, or to the extent as may be permitted by licensing terms governing use of open-sourced components or sample code included with the Apple Software).  You agree not to exploit the Apple Services or Apple Software in any unauthorized way whatsoever, including but not limited to, by trespass or burdening network capacity.  Further, as a condition to using the Apple Software and Apple Services, You agree that You will not, directly or indirectly, commit any act intended to interfere with the Apple Software or Apple Services.  All licenses not expressly granted in this Agreement are reserved and no other licenses, immunity or rights, express or implied are granted by Apple, by implication or otherwise.  This Agreement does not grant You any rights to use any trademarks, logos or service marks belonging to Apple, including but not limited to the iPhone or iPod word marks.  If You make reference to any Apple products or technology or use Apple’s trademarks, You agree to comply with the guidelines at: http://www.apple.com/legal/trademark/guidelinesfor3rdparties.html, as modified by Apple from time to time.  

2.8     Updates; No Support or Maintenance
Apple may extend, enhance, or otherwise modify the Apple Software and Apple Services at any time without notice, but Apple is not obligated to provide You with any Updates to the Apple Software and Apple Services.  If Apple makes Updates available, the terms of this Agreement will govern such Updates, unless the Update is accompanied by a separate license in which case the terms of that license will govern.  Apple is not obligated to provide any maintenance, technical or other support for the Apple Software and Apple Services.  You acknowledge that Apple has no express or implied obligation to announce or make available any Updates of the Apple Software and Apple Services to anyone in the future.  Should an Update be made available, it may have APIs, features, services or functionality that are different from those found in the Apple Software and Apple Services licensed hereunder.

2.9     Use of Apple Services in Your Applications
Apple may provide access to Apple Services that Your Applications may call through APIs in the Apple Software and/or that Apple makes available to You through other mechanisms, e.g., through the use of keys that Apple may make accessible to You through the Apple Software or Apple Services.  You agree to access such Apple Services only through the mechanisms provided by Apple for such access and only for use on Apple-branded products.  Except as expressly permitted by Apple in writing, You agree not to share access to mechanisms provided to You by Apple for the use of Apple Services with any third party.  Further, You agree not to create or attempt to create a substitute or similar service through use of or access to the Apple Services.  

You agree to access and use such Services only as necessary for providing services and functionality for Your Applications that are eligible to use such Services and only as permitted by Apple in writing, including in the Documentation.  You may not use the Apple Services in any manner that is inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement or that infringes any intellectual property rights of a third party or Apple, or that violates any applicable laws or regulations.  You agree that the Apple Services contain proprietary content, information and material owned by Apple and its licensors, and protected by applicable intellectual property and other laws.  You may not use such proprietary content, information or materials in any way whatsoever, except for the permitted uses of the Apple Services under this Agreement, or as otherwise separately and expressly permitted by Apple in writing.

You acknowledge that there may be storage capacity, transmission, and/or transactional limits for the Apple Services both for You as a developer and for Your Authorized Developers.  If You reach or Your Authorized Developers reach such limits, then You or Your Authorized Developer may be unable to use the Apple Services or may be unable to access or retrieve data from Your Applications or through the applicable end-user accounts.  You agree not to charge any fees to Your Authorized Developers solely for access to or use of the Apple Services through Your Application or for any content, data or information provided therein, and You agree not to sell access to the Apple Services in any way. 

Apple Services may not be available in all languages or in all countries, and Apple makes no representation that any such Services would be appropriate, accurate or available for use in any particular location or product.  To the extent You choose to use the Apple Services with Your Applications, You do so at Your own initiative and are responsible for compliance with any applicable laws.

Apple reserves the right to change, suspend, deprecate, remove, limit, or disable access to the Apple Services, or any part thereof, at any time without notice (including revoking entitlements or changing any APIs in the Apple Software that enable access to the Services).  In no event will Apple be liable for the removal of or disabling of access to any of the foregoing.  Apple may also impose limits and restrictions on the use of or access to the Apple Services, may remove the Apple Services for indefinite time periods, may revoke Your access to the Apple Services, or may cancel the Apple Services (or any part thereof) at any time without notice or liability to You and in its sole discretion.  

Apple does not guarantee the availability, accuracy, completeness, reliability, or timeliness of any data or information displayed by any Apple Services.  You are responsible for Your use of the Apple Software and Apple Services, and if You use such Services to store any content, data, or information, then it is Your responsibility to maintain appropriate alternate backup of all Your content, information, and data.  You understand and agree that You may not be able to access certain Apple Services upon expiration or termination of this Agreement and that Apple reserves the right to suspend access to or delete content, data or information that You have stored through Your use of such Services provided hereunder.  You should review the Documentation and policy notices posted by Apple prior to using any Apple Services.  Certain Apple Services may not be made available for Applications on all Apple-branded products and may not be made available to all developers.  Apple reserves the right to not provide (or to cease providing) the Apple Services to any or all developers at any time in its sole discretion.

2.10    Xcode Server 
If You access the Xcode Server feature of the Apple Software (e.g., via the command line tools), then You may use the Xcode Server feature for Your own personal use or within Your company or organization, but solely for Your own internal testing and development purposes.  You may not provide a service to any other party that integrates with or leverages services or information provided by Xcode Server or uses the Xcode Server feature in any way.  As a condition of using the Xcode Server feature of the Apple Software, You represent and warrant to Apple that You (and any user of a client-computer that You permit to access Xcode Server on Your behalf) are appropriately licensed to use the applicable services, features or functionality of the Xcode Developer Tools, the Apple SDKs and/or the Apple Developer Program account and associated resources accessed through Xcode Server (e.g., anyone attempting to gain access to Your Apple Developer certificates stored on Xcode Server must be a member of Your paid Apple Developer Program account team).  You agree to monitor and will be responsible for all such use by any user of a client-computer that You permit to access Xcode Server and their compliance with the terms of this Agreement and other applicable license agreements.

2.11    QuickTime Development Software
You may use the QuickTime development software only to develop application software that is compatible with, and runs only on supported macOS and/or Windows platforms with QuickTime installed.  Your software application may not interfere with the functionality of QuickTime Player or the QuickTime Plug-in, including but not limited to file type or MIME type associations that are registered to QuickTime.

2.12    System-Provided Images
The system-provided images owned by Apple and documented as such in Apple's Human Interface Guidelines for iOS, watchOS, tvOS, and/or macOS (“System-Provided Images”) are licensed to You solely for the purpose of developing Applications for Apple-branded products that run on the system for which the image was provided.  Upon termination of this Agreement, You may continue to distribute the System-Provided Images as used within Applications You developed using the Apple Software.

2.13    Additional Restrictions for Applications

A.      Use of the Apple Maps Service; Location
If Your Application uses or accesses the Map Kit API from a device running iOS version 6 or later, Your Application will access and use the Apple Maps Service.  All use of the Map Kit API and Apple Maps Service must be in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, and You agree that the Apple Maps Service is solely for use by Applications running on Apple-branded products.  Your Application may use the MapKit API only to access the Apple Maps Service and/or Map Data in Your Applications (except as otherwise set forth below).  

As part of such access to the Apple Maps Service and/or Map Data through the MapKit API:

-  Your Application must not remove, obscure or alter Apple’s or its licensors’ copyright notices, trademarks, or any other proprietary rights or legal notices, documents or hyperlinks that may appear in or be provided through the Apple Maps Service;

-  You must not use the Apple Maps Service in any manner that enables or permits bulk downloads or feeds of the Map Data, or any portion thereof, or that in any way attempts to extract, scrape or reutilize any portions of the Map Data.  For example, neither You nor Your Application may use or make available the Map Data, or any portion thereof, as part of any secondary or derived database;

-  Your Application may display the Map Data only as permitted herein, and when displaying it on a map, You agree that it will be displayed only on an Apple map provided through the Apple Maps Service; 

-  Except to the extent expressly permitted herein, You agree not to copy, modify, translate, create a derivative work of, publish or publicly display the Map Data in any way.  Further, You may not use or compare the data provided by the Apple Maps Service for the purpose of improving or creating another mapping service;

-  Unless otherwise expressly permitted in the MapKit Documentation for the Apple Maps Service, Map Data may not be cached, pre-fetched, or stored by You or Your Application, other than on a temporary and limited basis solely to improve the performance of the Apple Maps Service with Your Application; 

-  You acknowledge and agree that results You may receive from the Apple Maps Service may vary from actual conditions due to variable factors that can affect the accuracy of Map Data, such as road or weather conditions; and  

-  If Your Application accesses the MapKit API from a device running iOS version 5 or earlier, Your Application will access and use only the Google Mobile Maps (GMM) service.  Such use of the GMM is subject to the following terms: http://code.google.com/apis/maps/terms/iPhone.html.  If You do not accept such terms, You may not use the GMM service in Your Application, and You acknowledge and agree that such use will constitute Your acceptance of such terms.

Applications that use location-based APIs (e.g., Core Location, MapKit API) or otherwise provide location-based services may not be designed or marketed for automatic or autonomous control of vehicle behavior, or for emergency or life-saving purposes.  Map Data and other location data provided by Apple is not intended to be relied upon in situations where precise location information is needed or where erroneous, delayed, non-existent, inaccurate or incomplete location data may lead to death, personal injury, property or environmental damage.  

If You choose to provide Your own location-based service, data and/or information in conjunction with the Apple maps provided through the Apple Maps Service (e.g., overlaying a map or route You have created on top of an Apple map), You are solely responsible for ensuring that Your service, data and/or information correctly aligns with any Apple maps used.  For Applications that use location-based APIs for real-time navigation (including, but not limited to, turn-by-turn route guidance and other routing that is enabled through the use of a sensor), You must have an end-user license agreement that includes the following notice:  YOUR USE OF THIS REAL TIME ROUTE GUIDANCE APPLICATION IS AT YOUR SOLE RISK.  LOCATION DATA MAY NOT BE ACCURATE.  Further, any Applications that offer location-based services or location-based functionality must notify and obtain consent from an individual before his or her location data is collected, transmitted or otherwise used by the Application.  

B.      Use of the HealthKit APIs and the HomeKit APIs
You may use the HealthKit APIs only for internal testing and development purposes for Your Application.  Your Application must not access the HealthKit APIs unless it is primarily designed to provide health and/or fitness services.  You must not use the HealthKit APIs, or any information obtained through the HealthKit APIs, to disclose or provide an end-user’s health and/or fitness information to any third party and may only use such APIs for internal testing and development purposes for Your Application.  If Your Application accesses NikeFuel points information through the HealthKit APIs, then Your use of the NikeFuel points information is subject to the NikeFuel points terms of service set forth at: https://developer.nike.com/healthkit/nikefuel-use-agreement.html.  If You do not accept such NikeFuel points terms of service, including, but not limited to all limitations and restrictions therein, You may not use such NikeFuel points information in Your Application, and You acknowledge and agree that such use will constitute Your acceptance of such terms of service.

You may use the HomeKit APIs only for internal testing and development purposes for Your Application.  Your Application must not access the HomeKit APIs unless it is primarily designed to provide home configuration or home automation services (e.g., turning on a light, lifting a garage door) for hardware accessories licensed under Apple’s MFi Program.  You agree not to use the HomeKit APIs for any purpose other than interfacing, communicating, interoperating with or otherwise controlling hardware accessories licensed under Apple’s MFi Program or for using the HomeKit database, and then only for home configuration or home automation purposes in connection with Your Application.  Your Application may use information obtained from the HomeKit APIs and/or the HomeKit database only on an Apple-branded product running iOS.  You agree not to export, remotely access, or transfer such information off such device (e.g., a lock password cannot be sent off an end-user’s device to be stored in an external non-Apple database). 

C.      Compliance with Laws
You agree that neither You nor Your Applications will disable, override or otherwise interfere with any Apple-implemented system alerts, warnings, display panels, consent panels and the like.  You understand and agree that You and Your Applications must comply with all applicable criminal, civil and statutory laws and regulations (including privacy, data collection and location service laws and regulations) in any jurisdictions in which Your Applications may be delivered.  You shall be solely responsible for, and Apple shall have no responsibility or liability whatsoever with respect to, any and all claims, suits, liabilities, losses, damages, costs and expenses arising from, related or attributable to, or otherwise involving Your Application. 

You agree not to use the Apple Software and Services for any unlawful or illegal activity, nor to develop any Application that would commit or facilitate the commission of a crime, or other tortious, unlawful, or illegal act.  You agree that, to the best of Your knowledge and belief, Your Applications will not violate, misappropriate, or infringe any Apple or third party copyrights, trademarks, rights of privacy and publicity, trade secrets, patents, or other proprietary or legal rights (e.g. musical composition or performance rights, video rights, photography or image rights, logo rights, third party data rights, etc. for content and materials that may be included in Your Application).  Further, You agree not to use the Apple Software or Apple Services to create any Application or other software program that would disable, hack or otherwise interfere with any security, digital signing, digital rights management, content protection, verification or authentication mechanisms implemented in or by the Apple Software or the Apple Services, or by other Apple software, services or technology, or enable others to do so, unless otherwise permitted by Apple in writing.

Applications must not contain any malware, malicious or harmful code, program, or other internal component (e.g. computer viruses, trojan horses, “backdoors”) and may not use any Apple Software or services in a way that could damage, destroy, or adversely affect Apple hardware, software or services, or any other software, firmware, hardware, data, systems, services, or networks.  If Your Application includes any FOSS, You agree to comply with all applicable FOSS licensing terms, and You agree not to use any FOSS in the development of Your Application in such a way that would cause the non-FOSS portions of the Provisioning Profiles, Apple Software, Services, or any Apple-issued certificates to be subject to any FOSS licensing terms or obligations.

3.      Pre-Release Software and Services
Note:  This Agreement applies to both the commercial release versions of the Apple Software and pre-release versions of the Apple Software, as applicable.  You should review the release notes provided with the Apple Software if You are uncertain about Your confidentiality obligations or visit developer.apple.com for more information about pre-release versions.  

3.1     Using Pre-Release Apple Software and Services 
Pre-release versions of the Apple Software or Apple Services should not be relied upon to perform in the same manner as a final-release, commercial-grade product, nor should they be used with data that is not sufficiently and regularly backed up.  The pre-release Apple Software and Apple Services may contain inaccuracies or errors that could cause failures or loss of data and may be incomplete.  You should back up Your data prior to using any pre-release Apple Software and Apple Services and not rely on them to perform in the same way as a commercial release of the Apple Software and Services.

3.2     Confidentiality
You agree that pre-release versions of the Apple Software and Apple Services (including pre-release Documentation) will be deemed “Apple Confidential Information”; provided however that upon the commercial release of the Apple Software and Apple Services, such pre-release versions of the Apple Software and Apple Services will no longer be confidential.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Apple Confidential Information will not include: (i) information that is generally and legitimately available to the public through no fault or breach of Yours, (ii) information that is generally made available to the public by Apple, (iii) information that is independently developed by You without the use of any Apple Confidential Information, (iv) information that was rightfully obtained from a third party who had the right to transfer or disclose it to You without limitation, or (v) any FOSS included in the Apple Software and Apple Services and accompanied by licensing terms that do not impose confidentiality obligations on the use or disclosure of such FOSS.  Further, Apple agrees that You will not be bound by the foregoing confidentiality terms with regard to technical information about pre-release Apple Software or Apple Services disclosed by Apple at WWDC (Apple’s Worldwide Developers Conference), except that You may not post screen shots of, write public reviews of, or redistribute any pre-release Apple Software or Services.

You agree to protect Apple Confidential Information using at least the same degree of care that You use to protect Your own confidential information of similar importance, but no less than a reasonable degree of care.  You agree to use Apple Confidential Information solely for the purpose of exercising Your rights and performing Your obligations under this Agreement and agree not to use Apple Confidential Information for any other purpose, for Your own or any third party’s benefit, without Apple's prior written consent.  You further agree not to disclose or disseminate Apple Confidential Information to anyone other than: (i) Authorized Developers; or (ii) as otherwise agreed or permitted in writing by Apple.  You may disclose Apple Confidential Information to the extent required by law, provided that You take reasonable steps to notify Apple of such requirement before disclosing the Apple Confidential Information and to obtain protective treatment of the Apple Confidential Information.  You acknowledge that damages for improper disclosure of Apple Confidential Information may be irreparable; therefore, Apple is entitled to seek equitable relief, including injunction and preliminary injunction, in addition to all other remedies.

4.      Indemnification 
To the extent permitted by applicable law, You agree to indemnify, defend and hold harmless Apple, its directors, officers, employees, independent contractors and agents (each an “Apple Indemnified Party”) from any and all claims, losses, liabilities, damages, expenses and costs (including without limitation attorneys' fees and court costs) (collectively “Losses”) incurred by an Apple Indemnified Party as a result of Your breach of this Agreement, a breach of any certification, covenant, representation or warranty made by You in this Agreement, any claims that Your Applications violate or infringe any third party intellectual property or proprietary rights, or otherwise related to or arising from Your use of the Apple Software and Apple Services, Your Applications, Your development of Applications, or Your loading of Applications and limited distribution as permitted hereunder.  You acknowledge that the Apple Software and Apple Services is not intended for use in the development of Applications in which errors or inaccuracies in the content, functionality, services, data or information provided by the Application or the failure of the Application could lead to death, personal injury, or severe physical or environmental damage, and, to the extent permitted by law, You hereby agree to indemnify, defend and hold harmless each Apple Indemnified Party from any Losses incurred by such Apple Indemnified Party by reason of any such use.  In no event may You enter into any settlement or like agreement with a third party that affects Apple's rights or binds Apple in any way, without the prior written consent of Apple.

5.      Term and Termination
The license to use this version of the Apple Software and Apple Services is effective until terminated as set forth herein.  

This Agreement and all rights under this Agreement will terminate automatically or cease to be effective without notice from Apple if You or any of Your Authorized Developers fail to comply with any term(s) of this Agreement.  All rights hereunder in any beta or pre-release versions of the Apple Software for a particular release will terminate upon the commercial release of such Apple Software.  

Upon the termination of this Agreement for any reason, You agree to immediately cease all use of the Apple Software and Apple Services and erase and destroy all copies, full or partial, of the Apple Software and Apple Services and all copies of Apple Confidential Information in Your and Your Authorized Developers' possession or control.  At Apple’s request, You agree to provide written certification of such destruction to Apple.  

Apple reserves the right to revoke, disable or suspend any Provisioning Profiles or any access to the device deployment and provisioning features of the Apple Software and Services at any time, in its sole discretion.  By way of example, Apple may do this if Apple has reason to believe that Apple IDs were fraudulently obtained, that an unreasonable number of devices have been entered into the Apple Software, and/or that the Services are being used in a fraudulent, suspicious, or improper manner.   

The following terms shall survive termination: Section 1, the last sentence of Section 2.1, the last two sentences of Section 2.2B., the second to last sentence of Section 2.4, Section 2.6, Section 2.7, the last sentence of 2.12, and Sections 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8.  Apple will not be liable for compensation, indemnity, or damages of any sort as a result of terminating this Agreement in accordance with its terms, and termination of this Agreement will be without prejudice to any other right or remedy Apple may have, now or in the future. 

6.      NO WARRANTY
A.      YOU EXPRESSLY ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE THAT, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, USE OF THE APPLE SOFTWARE AND APPLE SERVICES IS AT YOUR SOLE RISK AND THAT THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO SATISFACTORY QUALITY, PERFORMANCE, ACCURACY AND EFFORT IS WITH YOU. 

B.      TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE APPLE SOFTWARE AND APPLE SERVICES ARE PROVIDED “AS IS” AND “AS AVAILABLE”, WITH ALL FAULTS AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, AND APPLE AND APPLE'S LICENSORS (COLLECTIVELY REFERRED TO AS “APPLE” FOR THE PURPOSES OF SECTIONS 6 AND 7) HEREBY DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE APPLE SOFTWARE AND APPLE SERVICES, EITHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ACCURACY, TIMELINESS, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.

C.      APPLE DOES NOT WARRANT AGAINST INTERFERENCE WITH YOUR ENJOYMENT OF THE APPLE SOFTWARE AND APPLE SERVICES, THAT THE APPLE SOFTWARE AND APPLE SERVICES WILL MEET YOUR REQUIREMENTS, THAT THE OPERATION OF THE APPLE SOFTWARE AND APPLE SERVICES WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE, THAT DEFECTS IN THE APPLE SOFTWARE AND APPLE SERVICES WILL BE CORRECTED, OR THAT THE APPLE SOFTWARE AND APPLE SERVICES WILL BE COMPATIBLE WITH FUTURE APPLE PRODUCTS OR SOFTWARE.  INSTALLATION OF THIS APPLE SOFTWARE AND USE OF THE APPLE SERVICES MAY AFFECT THE USABILITY OF THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE, APPLICATIONS OR THIRD PARTY SERVICES AS WELL AS OTHER APPLE PRODUCTS OR SERVICES.

D.      YOU FURTHER ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE APPLE SOFTWARE AND APPLE SERVICES ARE NOT INTENDED OR SUITABLE FOR USE IN SITUATIONS OR ENVIRONMENTS WHERE THE FAILURE OR TIME DELAYS OF, OR ERRORS OR INACCURACIES IN THE CONTENT, DATA OR INFORMATION PROVIDED BY, THE APPLE SOFTWARE OR APPLE SERVICES COULD LEAD TO DEATH, PERSONAL INJURY, OR SEVERE PHYSICAL OR ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION THE OPERATION OF NUCLEAR FACILITIES, AIRCRAFT NAVIGATION OR COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS, AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL, LIFE SUPPORT OR WEAPONS SYSTEMS. 

E.      NO ORAL OR WRITTEN INFORMATION OR ADVICE GIVEN BY APPLE OR AN APPLE AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE WILL CREATE A WARRANTY.  SHOULD THE APPLE SOFTWARE AND APPLE SERVICES PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE ENTIRE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.  SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR LIMITATIONS ON APPLICABLE STATUTORY RIGHTS OF A CONSUMER, SO THE ABOVE EXCLUSION AND LIMITATIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

7.      LIMITATION OF LIABILITY 
TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL APPLE BE LIABLE FOR PERSONAL INJURY, OR ANY INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES WHATSOEVER, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF PROFITS, CORRUPTION OR LOSS OF DATA, FAILURE TO TRANSMIT OR RECEIVE ANY DATA OR INFORMATION, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION OR ANY OTHER COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT, YOUR USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE THE APPLE SOFTWARE AND APPLE SERVICES, OR YOUR DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS, HOWEVER CAUSED, WHETHER UNDER A THEORY OF CONTRACT, WARRANTY, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), PRODUCTS LIABILITY, OR OTHERWISE, EVEN IF APPLE HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES, AND NOTWITHSTANDING THE FAILURE OF ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY REMEDY.  SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF LIABILITY FOR PERSONAL INJURY, OR OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THIS LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.  In no event shall Apple’s total liability to You under this Agreement for all damages (other than as may be required by applicable law in cases involving personal injury) exceed the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00).

8.      General Legal Terms
8.1     Third Party Notices
Portions of the Apple Software and Apple Services utilize or include third party software and other copyrighted material.  Acknowledgements, licensing terms and disclaimers for such material are contained in the electronic documentation for the Apple Software and Apple Services, and Your use of such material is governed by their respective terms.  Further, certain software libraries and other third party software included with the Apple Software are free software and licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public License (GPL) or the GNU Library/Lesser General Public License (LGPL), as the case may be.  You may obtain a complete machine-readable copy of the source code for such free software under the terms of the GPL or LGPL, as the case may be, without charge except for the cost of media, shipping, and handling, upon written request to Apple at opensource@apple.com.  The GPL/LGPL software is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY, without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  A copy of the GPL and LGPL is included with the Apple Software.

8.2     Consent to Collection and Use of Data 
A.      Diagnostic and Usage Data  
-  If You are running a pre-release version of the Apple Software and Services, then unless You opt out of diagnostic and usage collection, You agree that Apple and its subsidiaries and agents will collect, maintain, process and use diagnostic, technical, usage and related information, including but not limited to unique system or hardware identifiers, information about Your computer, system and application software, and peripherals, that is gathered periodically and automatically as part of the pre-release seeding process to test, provide and improve Apple’s products and services, facilitate the provision of software updates, product support and other services to You (if any) related to the Apple Software, and to verify compliance with the terms of this Agreement.  

-  If You are running a commercial version of the Apple Software and Services, then if You choose to allow diagnostic and usage collection, You agree that Apple and its subsidiaries and agents may collect, maintain, process and use diagnostic, technical, usage and related information, including but not limited to unique system or hardware identifiers, information about Your computer, system and application software, and peripherals, that is gathered periodically to provide and improve Apple’s products and services, facilitate the provision of software updates, product support and other services to You (if any) related to the Apple Software, and to verify compliance with the terms of this Agreement. 

-  You may change Your preferences for Diagnostics & Usage collection at any time by going to the Diagnostics & Usage setting in Your system software and deselecting the checkbox.  The Diagnostics & Usage setting is found in the Security & Privacy pane within System Preferences.  Apple may use this information, so long as it is collected in a form that does not personally identify You, for the purposes described above.  To enable Apple’s partners and third party developers to improve their software, hardware and services designed for use with Apple products, Apple may also provide any such partner or third party developer with a subset of diagnostic information that is relevant to that partner’s or developer’s software, hardware and/or services, so long as the diagnostic information is in a form that does not personally identify You.

B.      Device Provisioning Data
In order to set up and use the device provisioning, account authentication, and deployment features of the Apple Software and Services, certain unique identifiers for Your computer, iOS devices, watchOS devices, tvOS devices, and account information may be needed.  These unique identifiers may include Your email address, Your Apple ID, a hardware identifier for Your computer, and device identifiers entered by You into the Apple Software for Apple-branded products running iOS,  watchOS, or tvOS.  Such identifiers and information may be logged in association with Your interaction with the Service and Your use of these features and the Apple Software and Services.  By using the Apple Software or Services, You agree that Apple may transmit, collect, maintain, process and use these identifiers and information for the purpose of providing the Apple Software and Services, including using such identifiers for account verification and anti-fraud measures.  If You do not want to provide this information, do not use the device deployment and provisioning features of the Apple Software or Services.

C.       Privacy Policy 
At all times Your information will be treated in accordance with Apple’s Privacy Policy, which can be viewed at: http://www.apple.com/legal/privacy/.

8.3     Severability; Waiver
If a court of competent jurisdiction finds any clause of this Agreement to be unenforceable for any reason, that clause of this Agreement shall be enforced to the maximum extent permissible so as to effect the intent of the parties, and the remainder of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.  However, if applicable law prohibits or restricts You from fully and specifically complying with the Sections of this Agreement entitled “Internal Use License and Restrictions” or prevents the enforceability of either of those Sections, this Agreement will immediately terminate and You must immediately discontinue any use of the Apple Software and Apple Services as described in the Section entitled “Term and Termination.”  Failure by Apple to enforce any provision of this Agreement shall not be deemed a waiver of future enforcement of that or any other provision.  Any laws or regulations that provide that the language of a contract will be construed against the drafter will not apply to this Agreement.  Section headings are for convenience only and are not to be considered in construing or interpreting this Agreement.

8.4     Export Control 
You may not use, export, re-export, import, sell or transfer the Apple Software and Apple Services except as authorized by United States law, the laws of the jurisdiction in which You obtained the Apple Software and Apple Services, and any other applicable laws and regulations.  In particular, but without limitation, the Apple Software and Apple Services may not be exported or re-exported (a) into any U.S. embargoed countries or (b) to anyone on the U.S. Treasury Department’s list of Specially Designated Nationals or the U.S. Department of Commerce Denied Person’s List or Entity List or any other restricted party lists.  By using the Apple Software and Apple Services, You represent and warrant that You are not located in any such country or on any such list.  You also agree that You will not use the Apple Software and Apple Services for any purposes prohibited by United States law, including, without limitation, the development, design, manufacture or production of nuclear, chemical or biological weapons.  

8.5     Government End Users 
The Apple Software and Apple Services and Documentation are “Commercial Items”, as that term is defined at 48 C.F.R. §2.101, consisting of “Commercial Computer Software” and “Commercial Computer Software Documentation”, as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R. §12.212 or 48 C.F.R. §227.7202, as applicable.  Consistent with 48 C.F.R. §12.212 or 48 C.F.R. §227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4, as applicable, the Commercial Computer Software and Commercial Computer Software Documentation are being licensed to U.S. Government end users (a) only as Commercial Items and (b) with only those rights as are granted to all other end users pursuant to the terms and conditions herein.  Unpublished-rights reserved under the copyright laws of the United States.

8.6     Dispute Resolution; Governing Law 
Any litigation or other dispute resolution between You and Apple arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the Apple Software and/or Apple Services will take place in the Northern District of California, and You and Apple hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of and exclusive venue in the state and federal courts within that District with respect any such litigation or dispute resolution.  This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the United States and the State of California, except that body of California law concerning conflicts of law.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the following shall apply as exceptions to You, but solely to the limited extent that You are entering into this Agreement for the sole purpose of acting on behalf of Your entity:

A.  If You (as an entity entering into this Agreement) are an agency, instrumentality or department of the federal government of the United States, then this Agreement shall be governed in accordance with the laws of the United States of America, and in the absence of applicable federal law, the laws of the State of California will apply.  Further, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement (including but not limited to Section 4 (Indemnification)), all claims, demands, complaints and disputes will be subject to the Contract Disputes Act (41 U.S.C. §§601-613), the Tucker Act (28 U.S.C. § 1346(a) and § 1491), or the Federal Tort Claims Act (28 U.S.C. §§ 1346(b), 2401-2402, 2671-2672, 2674-2680), as applicable, or other applicable governing authority;

B.  If You (as an entity entering into this Agreement) are a U.S. public and accredited educational institution, then (a) this Agreement will be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the state (within the U.S.) in which Your educational institution is domiciled, except that body of state law concerning conflicts of law; and (b) any litigation or other dispute resolution between You and Apple arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the Apple Software and Apple Services, or Your relationship with Apple will take place in federal court within the Northern District of California, and You and Apple hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of and exclusive venue of such District unless such consent is expressly prohibited by the laws of the state in which Your educational institution is domiciled; and

C.  If You (as an entity entering into this Agreement) are an international, intergovernmental organization that has been conferred immunity from the jurisdiction of national courts through Your intergovernmental charter or agreement, then any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or the breach thereof, shall be determined by arbitration administered by the International Centre for Dispute Resolution in accordance with its International Arbitration Rules.  The place of arbitration shall be London, England; the language shall be English; and the number of arbitrators shall be three.  Upon Apple’s request, You agree to provide evidence of Your status as an intergovernmental organization with such privileges and immunities.

This Agreement shall not be governed by the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods, the application of which is expressly excluded.

8.7     Entire Agreement; Governing Language
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the use of the Apple Software and Apple Services licensed hereunder and supersedes all prior understandings regarding such subject matter.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent that You have entered into the Apple Developer Program License Agreement (PLA) with Apple and are validly licensed by Apple to exercise additional rights, or to use additional features or functionality of the Apple Software or Apple Services under the PLA, You acknowledge and agree that the PLA shall govern Your use of such additional rights and privileges.  No amendment to or modification of this Agreement will be binding unless in writing and signed by Apple.  The parties hereto confirm that they have requested that this Agreement and all related documents be drafted in English.  Les parties ont exigé que le présent contrat et tous les documents connexes soient rédigés en anglais. 


EA1478
5/24/2017


By typing 'agree' you are agreeing to the terms of the software license agreements. Type 'print' to print them or anything else to cancel, [agree, print, cancel] agree

You can view the license agreements in Xcode's About Box, or at /Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Resources/English.lproj/License.rtf

tagamidaiki:~ tagamidaiki$ sudo port uninstall ruby
sudo: port: command not found
tagamidaiki:~ tagamidaiki$ ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
==> This script will install:
/usr/local/bin/brew
/usr/local/share/doc/homebrew
/usr/local/share/man/man1/brew.1
/usr/local/share/zsh/site-functions/_brew
/usr/local/etc/bash_completion.d/brew
/usr/local/Homebrew

Press RETURN to continue or any other key to abort

==> Downloading and installing Homebrew...
remote: Counting objects: 7156, done.
remote: Compressing objects: 100% (1715/1715), done.
remote: Total 7156 (delta 5579), reused 6824 (delta 5292), pack-reused 0
Receiving objects: 100% (7156/7156), 1004.24 KiB | 608.00 KiB/s, done.
Resolving deltas: 100% (5579/5579), completed with 444 local objects.
From https://github.com/Homebrew/brew
   275aa1d1..441c212f  master     -> origin/master
 * [new tag]           1.2.4      -> 1.2.4
 * [new tag]           1.2.5      -> 1.2.5
 * [new tag]           1.2.6      -> 1.2.6
 * [new tag]           1.3.0      -> 1.3.0
 * [new tag]           1.3.1      -> 1.3.1
 * [new tag]           1.3.2      -> 1.3.2
 * [new tag]           1.3.3      -> 1.3.3
 * [new tag]           1.3.4      -> 1.3.4
 * [new tag]           1.3.5      -> 1.3.5
 * [new tag]           1.3.6      -> 1.3.6
HEAD is now at 441c212f Merge pull request #3416 from zmwangx/bump-formula-pr-fix-message

==> Downloading https://homebrew.bintray.com/bottles-portable/portable-ruby-2.3.3.leopard_64.bottle.1.tar.gz
######################################################################## 100.0%
==> Pouring portable-ruby-2.3.3.leopard_64.bottle.1.tar.gz
Updated 2 taps (homebrew/core, homebrew/php).
==> Cleaning up /Library/Caches/Homebrew...
==> Migrating /Library/Caches/Homebrew to /Users/tagamidaiki/Library/Caches/Homebrew...
==> Deleting /Library/Caches/Homebrew...
==> New Formulae
abyss                                          homebrew/php/php72-molten
akamai                                         homebrew/php/php72-mongodb
ampl-mp                                        homebrew/php/php72-mosquitto
apache-arrow                                   homebrew/php/php72-msgpack
apache-ctakes                                  homebrew/php/php72-mustache
apibuilder-cli                                 homebrew/php/php72-oauth
apng2gif                                       homebrew/php/php72-phalcon
armadillo                                      homebrew/php/php72-propro
arpack                                         homebrew/php/php72-pspell
asciidoctor                                    homebrew/php/php72-raphf
asciidoctorj                                   homebrew/php/php72-rdkafka
azure-cli@1                                    homebrew/php/php72-redis
bash-snippets                                  homebrew/php/php72-ref
beast                                          homebrew/php/php72-snmp
bench                                          homebrew/php/php72-ssh2
bento4                                         homebrew/php/php72-stats
bettercap                                      homebrew/php/php72-swoole
bitcoin                                        homebrew/php/php72-tidy
bowtie2                                        homebrew/php/php72-timecop
braid                                          homebrew/php/php72-timezonedb
brainfuck                                      homebrew/php/php72-trader
bwfmetaedit                                    homebrew/php/php72-uopz
bzt                                            homebrew/php/php72-uv
ceres-solver                                   homebrew/php/php72-v8js
cfitsio                                        homebrew/php/php72-xxtea
clac                                           homebrew/php/php72-yac
clblas                                         homebrew/php/php72-yaml
clfft                                          htslib
clinfo                                         http-server
clojure                                        hwloc
cminpack                                       hypre
configen                                       iamy
cppad                                          igraph
crc32c                                         inetutils
credstash                                      insect
cryfs                                          iron-functions
csvkit                                         jabba
datamash                                       json-table
dep                                            jupyter
dlib                                           just
docfx                                          keystone
docker2aci                                     kontena
dps8m                                          kubectx
duc                                            landscaper
dvanalyzer                                     laszip@2
dwarf                                          lean
e2tools                                        lgogdownloader
erlang@17                                      libbitcoin
erlang@19                                      libbitcoin-blockchain
faas-cli                                       libbitcoin-database
flann                                          libbitcoin-explorer
fn                                             libbitcoin-node
freedink                                       libbitcoin-server
frugal                                         libmatio
gdcm                                           libnice
geth                                           libopusenc
ghc@8.0                                        libpq
git-appraise                                   libtrng
git-cinnabar                                   libxlsxwriter
glib-openssl                                   liquid-dsp
glpk                                           llvm@4
gmsh                                           marathon-swift
gmt                                            massren
go-jira                                        maven@3.0
go@1.8                                         maxima
gomplate                                       mecab-unidic-extended
goose                                          metis
gopass                                         mimic
gradle-completion                              mruby-cli
gromacs                                        msgpuck
gutenberg                                      mujs
haste-client                                   nco
hdf5                                           ncview
hdf5@1.8                                       neovim
homebrew/php/drush-launcher                    netcdf
homebrew/php/infection                         nlopt
homebrew/php/phan@0.9                          ocaml-num
homebrew/php/php54-molten                      octave
homebrew/php/php54-trader                      openblas
homebrew/php/php54-xdiff                       opencv@2
homebrew/php/php55-molten                      openfortivpn
homebrew/php/php55-trader                      ott
homebrew/php/php55-xdiff                       packetq
homebrew/php/php56-ice                         packmol
homebrew/php/php56-molten                      payara
homebrew/php/php56-trader                      pcb
homebrew/php/php56-translit                    pcl
homebrew/php/php56-xdiff                       pdfpc
homebrew/php/php70-ice                         pdfsandwich
homebrew/php/php70-molten                      pipenv
homebrew/php/php70-mosquitto                   pony-stable
homebrew/php/php70-sodium                      postgresql@9.6
homebrew/php/php70-trader                      precomp
homebrew/php/php70-xdiff                       pumba
homebrew/php/php71-gnupg                       pycodestyle
homebrew/php/php71-http                        qhull
homebrew/php/php71-ice                         qrupdate
homebrew/php/php71-ioncubeloader               r
homebrew/php/php71-molten                      rbenv-chefdk
homebrew/php/php71-mosquitto                   redis@3.2
homebrew/php/php71-protobuf                    root@5
homebrew/php/php71-sodium                      s-nail
homebrew/php/php71-trader                      sbt@0.13
homebrew/php/php71-xdiff                       sc-im
homebrew/php/php71-xmldiff                     scalapack
homebrew/php/php71-zmq                         sccache
homebrew/php/php72-amqp                        singular
homebrew/php/php72-apcu                        snapcraft
homebrew/php/php72-apcu-bc                     ssh-vault
homebrew/php/php72-ast                         stubby
homebrew/php/php72-blitz                       suite-sparse
homebrew/php/php72-couchbase                   sundials
homebrew/php/php72-ev                          superlu
homebrew/php/php72-event                       swift-protobuf
homebrew/php/php72-gearman                     tectonic
homebrew/php/php72-geoip                       telnet
homebrew/php/php72-geos                        terraform_landscape
homebrew/php/php72-gmagick                     tokei
homebrew/php/php72-gmp                         traefik
homebrew/php/php72-grpc                        trash-cli
homebrew/php/php72-hprose                      veclibfort
homebrew/php/php72-http                        voro++
homebrew/php/php72-igbinary                    vtk
homebrew/php/php72-imagick                     wpscan
homebrew/php/php72-intl                        wxmaxima
homebrew/php/php72-libsodium                   xmrig
homebrew/php/php72-lua                         xtensor
homebrew/php/php72-lz4                         ydcv
homebrew/php/php72-lzf                         ykman
homebrew/php/php72-mailparse                   zim
homebrew/php/php72-maxminddb                   zip
homebrew/php/php72-mecab                       zork
homebrew/php/php72-memcached
==> Updated Formulae
augeas ✔                                       ipfs
certbot ✔                                      ipmitool
freetype ✔                                     ipv6calc
homebrew/php/composer ✔                        ipython
homebrew/php/php70 ✔                           ipython@5
icu4c ✔                                        ircd-hybrid
jpeg ✔                                         ircii
libpng ✔                                       ired
libxml2 ✔                                      ironcli
openssl ✔                                      irssi
openssl@1.1 ✔                                  isc-dhcp
python ✔                                       iso-codes
sqlite ✔                                       isync
abcm2ps                                        itex2mml
abcmidi                                        itstool
ace                                            ivykis
aces_container                                 jack
acmetool                                       jags
acpica                                         jasper
activemq                                       jbig2dec
activemq-cpp                                   jbig2enc
advancecomp                                    jboss-forge
aescrypt-packetizer                            jemalloc
aespipe                                        jena
afflib                                         jenkins
afl-fuzz                                       jenkins-job-builder
afsctool                                       jenkins-lts
agda                                           jetty
agedu                                          jetty-runner
alexjs                                         jfrog-cli-go
algernon                                       jhipster
allegro                                        jmeter
allure                                         jmxtrans
alot                                           joe
amazon-ecs-cli                                 jose
ammonite-repl                                  jp2a
amqp-cpp                                       jpeg-turbo
angband                                        jpeginfo
angular-cli                                    jpegoptim
anjuta                                         jruby
ansible                                        jsdoc3
ansible-cmdb                                   json-c
ansible-lint                                   json-fortran
ansible@2.0                                    jsoncpp
ansifilter                                     jsonnet
ansiweather                                    jsonschema2pojo
antigen                                        juju
apache-brooklyn-cli                            julius
apache-flink                                   jvgrep
apache-geode                                   jython
apache-opennlp                                 kafka
apache-spark                                   kapacitor
apache-zeppelin                                kawa
apktool                                        kerl
app-engine-go-64                               khal
app-engine-java                                kibana
app-engine-python                              kitchen-sync
appscale-tools                                 klavaro
apr                                            knot
apr-util                                       knot-resolver
aptly                                          kobalt
arangodb                                       kompose
argyll-cms                                     konoha
aria2                                          kops
armor                                          kotlin
arping                                         kpcli
artifactory                                    krb5
arx-libertatis                                 ktoblzcheck
ascii                                          kube-aws
asciidoc                                       kubernetes-cli
asdf                                           kubernetes-helm
aspcud                                         lablgtk
aspell                                         languagetool
assh                                           lapack
assimp                                         lastpass-cli
at-spi2-atk                                    laszip
at-spi2-core                                   latexila
atk                                            launch
atlassian-cli                                  launch4j
ats2-postiats                                  launchdns
aubio                                          lbdb
audacious                                      lcdproc
aurora                                         ldc
aurora-cli                                     le
autoconf-archive                               lean-cli
automake                                       leaps
autopano-sift-c                                ledger
avfs                                           ledit
avro-c                                         legit
avro-cpp                                       lego
avro-tools                                     leiningen
aws-elasticbeanstalk                           leptonica
aws-sdk-cpp                                    leveldb
aws-shell                                      lftp
awscli                                         libagar
awslogs                                        libarchive
axel                                           libass
azure-cli                                      libav
b2-tools                                       libbpg
babl                                           libcdr
bacula-fd                                      libcds
bandcamp-dl                                    libchamplain
baobab                                         libcoap
baresip                                        libconfig
bartycrouch                                    libcouchbase
basex                                          libcue
bash-completion                                libdap
bash-completion@2                              libdiscid
bash-git-prompt                                libdsk
bash-preexec                                   libebml
bashdb                                         liberasurecode
bazel                                          libextractor
bcpp                                           libfabric
bear                                           libfaketime
beecrypt                                       libfixbuf
berkeley-db                                    libflowmanager
bibtex2html                                    libfreenect
bibtexconv                                     libftdi
bibutils                                       libgaiagraphics
bigloo                                         libgcrypt
binaryen                                       libgeotiff
bind                                           libgit2
bindfs                                         libgit2-glib
binutils                                       libgosu
bison                                          libgphoto2
bison@2.7                                      libgraphqlparser
bit                                            libgsm
bitrise                                        libgweather
blahtexml                                      libgxps
blastem                                        libhdhomerun
blockhash                                      libhttpseverywhere
bltool                                         libical
bluepill                                       libinfinity
bmake                                          libjson-rpc-cpp
bmon                                           liblcf
bnd                                            liblo
bonnie++                                       liblockfile
boost                                          libmagic
boost-bcp                                      libmatroska
boost-mpi                                      libmaxminddb
boost-python                                   libmikmod
boot-clj                                       libmodplug
botan                                          libmowgli
bower                                          libmpdclient
brew-gem                                       libmspub
bro                                            libmtp
brotli                                         libmwaw
bsponmpi                                       libmxml
btfs                                           libnatpmp
buildifier                                     libngspice
buku                                           libofx
bulk_extractor                                 libogg
bullet                                         libosinfo
byacc                                          libosmium
byobu                                          libowfat
c-ares                                         libpano
cabal-install                                  libpeas
caddy                                          libphonenumber
caf                                            libpqxx
cairo                                          libprotoident
cake                                           libpst
camlp4                                         libqalculate
camlp5                                         libquicktime
capnp                                          librasterlite
cargo-completion                               libraw
carthage                                       librdkafka
cassandra                                      libre
cassandra@2.2                                  librem
castxml                                        libressl
catimg                                         librest
cc65                                           librsvg
ccextractor                                    librsync
cclive                                         libshout
ccm                                            libsmi
certigo                                        libsodium
certstrap                                      libsoup
ceylon                                         libspectre
cfr-decompiler                                 libspectrum
cgal                                           libstfl
cgrep                                          libsvg-cairo
chakra                                         libtcod
chapel                                         libtensorflow
charm-tools                                    libtiff
cheat                                          libtommath
check                                          libtorrent-rasterbar
checkbashisms                                  libtrace
checkstyle                                     libu2f-host
chezscheme                                     libuecc
chipmunk                                       libuninameslist
chisel                                         libupnp
chordii                                        libuv
chromedriver                                   libuvc
chronograf                                     libvirt
cimg                                           libvisio
citus                                          libvoikko
cjdns                                          libwbxml
ckan                                           libwebsockets
clang-format                                   libwmf
clasp                                          libwpd
clhep                                          libwpg
cli53                                          libwps
clib                                           libxkbcommon
cloc                                           libxmlsec1
clojurescript                                  libxslt
closure-compiler                               libzip
closure-stylesheets                            lightning
clutter-gtk                                    lighttpd
cmake                                          linkerd
cmark                                          links
cmark-gfm                                      little-cms
cmocka                                         little-cms2
cnats                                          lldpd
coccinelle                                     llnode
cockatrice                                     llvm
cockroach                                      loc
cocoapods                                      log4cpp
codec2                                         logrotate
codemod                                        logstalgia
coffeescript                                   logstash
collector-sidecar                              logtalk
commandbox                                     lolcat
compcert                                       lsdvd
compose2kube                                   luaver
conan                                          lumo
confuse                                        lwtools
conjure-up                                     lxc
consul                                         lynis
consul-backinator                              lz4
consul-template                                lzlib
convmv                                         lzop
convox                                         m-cli
cookiecutter                                   macosvpn
coq                                            macvim
corebird                                       magic-wormhole
corectl                                        mailutils
coreutils                                      mairix
couchdb                                        makensis
cppcheck                                       makeself
cpprestsdk                                     mal4s
cputhrottle                                    mame
crash                                          mandoc
creduce                                        mapcrafter
cromwell                                       mapnik
crosstool-ng                                   mapserver
crowdin                                        mariadb
cryptol                                        mariadb@10.0
crystal-icr                                    mariadb@10.1
crystal-lang                                   masscan
csmith                                         mat
cspice                                         maven
ctop                                           mawk
cucumber-cpp                                   mbedtls
curl                                           mcabber
cutter                                         mdds
cvs                                            mdp
cython                                         media-info
dar                                            mediaconch
dasht                                          mednafen
dateutils                                      megacmd
davix                                          memcached
dbhash                                         menhir
dbus                                           mercurial
dbxml                                          mesalib-glw
dc3dd                                          meson
dcd                                            mesos
dcm2niix                                       metabase
dcmtk                                          metaproxy
dcos-cli                                       metricbeat
dcraw                                          mftrace
ddar                                           mg
debianutils                                    mgba
deis                                           micro
deja-gnu                                       micropython
dependency-check                               mikutter
depqbf                                         miller
derby                                          minetest
devil                                          mingw-w64
dfc                                            minidlna
dfix                                           minimal-racket
dhall-json                                     minio
dieharder                                      minio-mc
diff-pdf                                       minisat
diff-so-fancy                                  minisign
diffoscope                                     minizinc
digdag                                         mitie
direnv                                         mitmproxy
django-completion                              mjpegtools
djvulibre                                      mkdocs
dmd                                            mksh
dmtx-utils                                     mkvalidator
dnscrypt-proxy                                 mkvtoolnix
dnscrypt-wrapper                               mldonkey
dnsmasq                                        mm-common
dnsviz                                         mmark
docker                                         moc
docker-cloud                                   mockserver
docker-completion                              moe
docker-compose                                 molecule
docker-compose-completion                      monax
docker-credential-helper                       monetdb
docker-machine                                 mongo-c-driver
docker-machine-completion                      mongo-cxx-driver
docker-machine-driver-vultr                    mongo-orchestration
docker-machine-driver-xhyve                    mongodb
docker-machine-parallels                       mongoose
docker-swarm                                   monit
doctl                                          mono-libgdiplus
docutils                                       mosquitto
doitlive                                       mp3blaster
dos2unix                                       mpage
double-conversion                              mpc
dovecot                                        mpd
druid                                          mpdas
dscanner                                       mpdscribble
dsh                                            mpfr
dshb                                           mpg123
dspdfviewer                                    mpv
dssim                                          mpw
dtc                                            mruby
dterm                                          mscgen
dub                                            msgpack
duck                                           msitools
duo_unix                                       mspdebug
duplicity                                      multimarkdown
duply                                          mupdf
dvdauthor                                      mupdf-tools
dvm                                            mutt
dwarfutils                                     mvnvm
dwdiff                                         mycli
dynamips                                       mypy
e2fsprogs                                      mysql
easyrpg-player                                 mysql-cluster
ebook-tools                                    mysql-connector-c
ecl                                            mysql-sandbox
efl                                            mysql@5.5
eg                                             mysql@5.6
eigen                                          n
ejabberd                                       nagios
elasticsearch                                  nano
elasticsearch@2.4                              nanomsg
elixir                                         nanomsgxx
elvish                                         nanopb-generator
emacs                                          natalie
emacs-clang-complete-async                     nativefier
embulk                                         nats-streaming-server
emp                                            ncmpc
emscripten                                     ncmpcpp
encfs                                          ncrack
enigma                                         ncurses
entr                                           ndpi
epeg                                           neatvi
eprover                                        nedit
erlang                                         neo4j
etcd                                           neofetch
evince                                         nestopia-ue
exa                                            netpbm
exact-image                                    nexus
exempi                                         nfdump
exercism                                       nghttp2
exiftool                                       nginx
exim                                           ngspice
expat                                          nickle
expect                                         nifi
exploitdb                                      nim
eye-d3                                         ninja
faac                                           nmap
faad2                                          nnn
fabio                                          no-more-secrets
fabric                                         node
fail2ban                                       node-build
fakeroot                                       node@4
fastd                                          node@6
fatsort                                        nodeenv
fb-client                                      nodenv
fd                                             nomad
fdroidserver                                   noti
feedgnuplot                                    notmuch
feh                                            nsd
ffe                                            nspr
ffmpeg                                         nsq
ffmpeg@2.8                                     nss
ffmpegthumbnailer                              ntl
fibjs                                          numpy
ficy                                           nuttcp
fifechan                                       nuxeo
file-formula                                   nvi
file-roller                                    nvm
filebeat                                       nzbget
fio                                            ocaml
firebase-cli                                   ocamlbuild
fits                                           ocamlsdl
fizmo                                          ode
fizsh                                          offlineimap
flactag                                        ola
flake8                                         omniorb
flatbuffers                                    ompl
flatcc                                         one-ml
flawfinder                                     oniguruma
fleetctl                                       onscripter
flow                                           opam
flowgrind                                      open-mpi
fltk                                           open-scene-graph
fluent-bit                                     openal-soft
fluid-synth                                    openclonk
fmt                                            opencoarrays
fobis                                          opencsg
folly                                          opendetex
fon-flash-cli                                  openjazz
fontconfig                                     openjpeg
fontforge                                      openmsx
fonttools                                      openrct2
forego                                         openrtsp
format-udf                                     opensaml
fossil                                         opensc
fox                                            openshift-cli
freeciv                                        openslide
freeipmi                                       openssh
freeling                                       openttd
freeradius-server                              openvdb
freeswitch                                     openvpn
freetds                                        opus
freexl                                         opusfile
frei0r                                         orc
fs-uae                                         orientdb
fsql                                           ortp
fstar                                          osc
fswatch                                        oscats
fuse-emulator                                  osm-pbf
fuse-zip                                       osm2pgrouting
fuseki                                         osm2pgsql
fwknop                                         osmfilter
fwup                                           osmium-tool
fzf                                            osquery
gabedit                                        osrm-backend
galen                                          osxutils
gammaray                                       overmind
gammu                                          owfs
gandi.cli                                      oysttyer
ganglia                                        p11-kit
gauge                                          pacapt
gawk                                           packer
gcc                                            packetbeat
gcc@4.6                                        paket
gcc@4.7                                        pam_yubico
gcc@5                                          pandoc
gcc@6                                          pandoc-citeproc
gcsfuse                                        pandoc-crossref
gcviewer                                       pango
gd                                             par2
gdal                                           parallel
gdb                                            pari
gdk-pixbuf                                     passenger
gdl                                            pazpar2
gearman                                        pc6001vx
geckodriver                                    pcap_dnsproxy
gedit                                          pcb2gcode
geeqie                                         pcre
gegl                                           pcre2
generate-json-schema                           pdal
geocode-glib                                   pdf-redact-tools
geographiclib                                  pdf2htmlex
geoipupdate                                    pdf2json
geos                                           pdf2svg
geoserver                                      pdfcrack
get-flash-videos                               pdfgrep
get_iplayer                                    pdftoedn
getdns                                         pdftoipe
getmail                                        pdns
gflags                                         pdnsrec
ghc                                            pegtl
ghi                                            percona-server
ghostscript                                    percona-server-mongodb
ghq                                            percona-server@5.5
gibo                                           percona-server@5.6
gifsicle                                       percona-toolkit
gimme                                          percona-xtrabackup
git                                            perl
git-annex                                      pgbadger
git-extras                                     pgcli
git-flow-avh                                   pgformatter
git-fresh                                      pgloader
git-ftp                                        pgroonga
git-lfs                                        pgrouting
git-number                                     phoronix-test-suite
git-quick-stats                                pianobar
git-town                                       pick
gitbucket                                      picoc
giter8                                         pike
gitfs                                          pilosa
gitg                                           pioneer
github-markdown-toc                            pixman
gitless                                        pjproject
gjs                                            pktanon
gjstest                                        planck
gkrellm                                        plantuml
gl2ps                                          platformio
glade                                          pldebugger
glassfish                                      plowshare
glew                                           plplot
glib                                           pmd
glib-networking                                pmdmini
glibmm                                         pngcrush
glide                                          pngquant
glm                                            poco
globus-toolkit                                 podofo
gloox                                          points2grid
gmic                                           ponscripter-sekai
gmime                                          ponyc
gmp                                            ponysay
gnatsd                                         poppler
gnome-builder                                  postgis
gnome-recipes                                  postgresql
gnu-chess                                      postgresql@9.4
gnu-time                                       postgresql@9.5
gnu-units                                      postgrest
gnumeric                                       potrace
gnupg                                          povray
gnupg-pkcs11-scd                               ppsspp
gnupg@1.4                                      pqiv
gnuplot                                        pre-commit
gnuplot@4                                      prest
gnuradio                                       presto
gnustep-make                                   primesieve
gnutls                                         prometheus
go                                             protobuf
go@1.4                                         protobuf-c
goad                                           protobuf-swift
gobject-introspection                          psqlodbc
godep                                          pulseaudio
goenv                                          pure-ftpd
gofabric8                                      purescript
goffice                                        pushpin
golo                                           putty
gom                                            pv
goocanvas                                      pwgen
goofys                                         pwntools
google-benchmark                               py2cairo
google-java-format                             py3cairo
googler                                        pybind11
gor                                            pyenv
gource                                         pyenv-virtualenv
govendor                                       pygobject
gperftools                                     pygobject3
gphoto2                                        pyinvoke
gpp                                            pypy
gprof2dot                                      pypy3
gpsbabel                                       pyqt
gpsd                                           python3
gpsim                                          qbs
gputils                                        qcli
grace                                          qemu
gradle                                         qpdf
grafana                                        qrencode
grails                                         qscintilla2
grakn                                          qt
graphicsmagick                                 quantlib
grep                                           quex
grib-api                                       rabbitmq
grip                                           radare2
groonga                                        rakudo-star
groovy                                         rancher-cli
grpc                                           rbenv-bundler
grunt-completion                               rbenv-bundler-ruby-version
gsettings-desktop-schemas                      rclone
gsl                                            rcs
gsmartcontrol                                  re2
gsoap                                          re2c
gspell                                         readosm
gst-editing-services                           reattach-to-user-namespace
gst-libav                                      rebar@3
gst-plugins-bad                                recon-ng
gst-plugins-base                               recoverjpeg
gst-plugins-good                               redex
gst-plugins-ugly                               redis
gst-python                                     redis-leveldb
gst-rtsp-server                                remake
gst-validate                                   remarshal
gstreamer                                      reop
gstreamermm                                    residualvm
gtk+3                                          restund
gtk-doc                                        resty
gtk-gnutella                                   rethinkdb
gtkextra                                       rex
gtkmm3                                         rgbds
gtksourceview3                                 rhash
gucharmap                                      rhino
gupnp-tools                                    riak
gwenhywfar                                     riemann
gws                                            riemann-client
gwt                                            ringojs
gwyddion                                       ripgrep
gx                                             rkhunter
gx-go                                          rlvm
h2                                             rocksdb
h2o                                            rom-tools
hadoop                                         roswell
hana                                           rpm
haproxy                                        rswift
harfbuzz                                       rt-audio
hashcat                                        rtags
haskell-stack                                  rtmidi
haxe                                           rtv
hbase                                          ruby
heimdal                                        ruby-build
help2man                                       ruby@1.8
heroku                                         ruby@1.9
hevea                                          ruby@2.0
hexedit                                        ruby@2.1
hfstospell                                     ruby@2.2
hg-fast-export                                 ruby@2.3
hh                                             rust
hicolor-icon-theme                             rustup-init
highlight                                      rxvt-unicode
hive                                           s-search
hivemind                                       s3cmd
hledger                                        s6
homebank                                       saldl
homebrew/php/arcanist                          saltstack
homebrew/php/codeception                       sane-backends
homebrew/php/deployer                          saxon
homebrew/php/drupalconsole                     sbcl
homebrew/php/drush                             sbt
homebrew/php/envoy                             sbtenv
homebrew/php/n98-magerun                       scala
homebrew/php/n98-magerun2                      scalaenv
homebrew/php/phan                              scalariform
homebrew/php/phan@0.8                          scamper
homebrew/php/phive                             schismtracker
homebrew/php/php-build                         scipy
homebrew/php/php-code-sniffer                  scm-manager
homebrew/php/php-cs-fixer                      scons
homebrew/php/php53                             scour
homebrew/php/php53-binpack                     screen
homebrew/php/php53-boxwood                     scummvm
homebrew/php/php53-chdb                        scw
homebrew/php/php53-crypto                      sdb
homebrew/php/php53-dbase                       sdcv
homebrew/php/php53-dbus                        sdl2
homebrew/php/php53-dmtx                        sdl2_gfx
homebrew/php/php53-eio                         sdl2_image
homebrew/php/php53-gearman                     sdl2_mixer
homebrew/php/php53-gmagick                     sdl_gfx
homebrew/php/php53-graphdat                    sdl_image
homebrew/php/php53-htscanner                   securefs
homebrew/php/php53-imagick                     selenium-server-standalone
homebrew/php/php53-intl                        serd
homebrew/php/php53-jsmin                       sfcgal
homebrew/php/php53-leveldb                     sfml
homebrew/php/php53-libevent                    shadowsocks-libev
homebrew/php/php53-lz4                         shairport-sync
homebrew/php/php53-mailparse                   shapelib
homebrew/php/php53-mecab                       shared-mime-info
homebrew/php/php53-midgard2                    shfmt
homebrew/php/php53-mosquitto                   shpotify
homebrew/php/php53-oauth                       siege
homebrew/php/php53-opcache                     simgrid
homebrew/php/php53-pimple                      simple-obfs
homebrew/php/php53-proctitle                   sip
homebrew/php/php53-protobuf                    sjk
homebrew/php/php53-pthreads                    skinny
homebrew/php/php53-redis                       slackcat
homebrew/php/php53-redland                     sleuthkit
homebrew/php/php53-stats                       smali
homebrew/php/php53-timecop                     smartmontools
homebrew/php/php53-xhprof                      snakemake
homebrew/php/php54                             snap-telemetry
homebrew/php/php54-apc                         snap7
homebrew/php/php54-augmentedtypes              snappy
homebrew/php/php54-binpack                     snappystream
homebrew/php/php54-boxwood                     sngrep
homebrew/php/php54-chdb                        snort
homebrew/php/php54-couchbase                   snzip
homebrew/php/php54-crypto                      socat
homebrew/php/php54-dbase                       softhsm
homebrew/php/php54-dbus                        solr
homebrew/php/php54-dmtx                        solr@5.5
homebrew/php/php54-gearman                     sonarqube
homebrew/php/php54-gmagick                     sops
homebrew/php/php54-gmp                         source-highlight
homebrew/php/php54-graphdat                    source-to-image
homebrew/php/php54-htscanner                   sourcekitten
homebrew/php/php54-http                        sourcery
homebrew/php/php54-imagick                     spandsp
homebrew/php/php54-intl                        sparkey
homebrew/php/php54-ioncubeloader               spdlog
homebrew/php/php54-jsmin                       sphinx-doc
homebrew/php/php54-leveldb                     spigot
homebrew/php/php54-libevent                    spim
homebrew/php/php54-lz4                         sqlcipher
homebrew/php/php54-mailparse                   sqldiff
homebrew/php/php54-mecab                       sqlite-analyzer
homebrew/php/php54-midgard2                    sqlmap
homebrew/php/php54-mongodb                     sqlparse
homebrew/php/php54-mosquitto                   squid
homebrew/php/php54-oauth                       srtp
homebrew/php/php54-opcache                     ssdeep
homebrew/php/php54-pcntl                       ssh-copy-id
homebrew/php/php54-pdflib                      sshfs
homebrew/php/php54-pdo-dblib                   sshguard
homebrew/php/php54-pdo-pgsql                   sshuttle
homebrew/php/php54-pimple                      sslh
homebrew/php/php54-proctitle                   sslyze
homebrew/php/php54-protobuf                    ssreflect
homebrew/php/php54-pspell                      st
homebrew/php/php54-redis                       stanford-parser
homebrew/php/php54-redland                     statik
homebrew/php/php54-snmp                        stella
homebrew/php/php54-sodium                      stgit
homebrew/php/php54-timecop                     stlink
homebrew/php/php54-xhprof                      stone-soup
homebrew/php/php55                             streamlink
homebrew/php/php55-augmentedtypes              strongswan
homebrew/php/php55-binpack                     stunnel
homebrew/php/php55-boxwood                     submarine
homebrew/php/php55-chdb                        subnetcalc
homebrew/php/php55-couchbase                   subversion
homebrew/php/php55-crypto                      supersonic
homebrew/php/php55-dbase                       supertux
homebrew/php/php55-dbus                        supervisor
homebrew/php/php55-dmtx                        suricata
homebrew/php/php55-gearman                     svg2pdf
homebrew/php/php55-gmagick                     svg2png
homebrew/php/php55-gmp                         svgcleaner
homebrew/php/php55-graphdat                    svgo
homebrew/php/php55-grpc                        svtplay-dl
homebrew/php/php55-htscanner                   swagger-codegen
homebrew/php/php55-http                        swfmill
homebrew/php/php55-imagick                     swi-prolog
homebrew/php/php55-intl                        swift
homebrew/php/php55-ioncubeloader               swiftformat
homebrew/php/php55-jsmin                       swiftgen
homebrew/php/php55-leveldb                     swiftlint
homebrew/php/php55-libevent                    swiftplate
homebrew/php/php55-lz4                         swimat
homebrew/php/php55-mailparse                   syncthing
homebrew/php/php55-mecab                       syntaxerl
homebrew/php/php55-midgard2                    sysbench
homebrew/php/php55-mongodb                     sysdig
homebrew/php/php55-mosquitto                   szip
homebrew/php/php55-oauth                       t1utils
homebrew/php/php55-opcache                     taisei
homebrew/php/php55-pcntl                       talloc
homebrew/php/php55-pdflib                      tarantool
homebrew/php/php55-pdo-dblib                   tarsnap
homebrew/php/php55-pdo-pgsql                   tarsnap-gui
homebrew/php/php55-phalcon                     taylor
homebrew/php/php55-pimple                      tbb
homebrew/php/php55-proctitle                   tbox
homebrew/php/php55-protobuf                    tcl-tk
homebrew/php/php55-pspell                      tcpdump
homebrew/php/php55-redis                       tee-clc
homebrew/php/php55-redland                     teensy_loader_cli
homebrew/php/php55-snmp                        telegraf
homebrew/php/php55-sodium                      telegram-cli
homebrew/php/php55-timecop                     teleport
homebrew/php/php55-xdebug                      temporal_tables
homebrew/php/php55-xhprof                      terminal-notifier
homebrew/php/php56                             termius
homebrew/php/php56-augmentedtypes              terraform
homebrew/php/php56-binpack                     terraform-docs
homebrew/php/php56-boxwood                     terragrunt
homebrew/php/php56-chdb                        testssl
homebrew/php/php56-couchbase                   texinfo
homebrew/php/php56-crypto                      texmath
homebrew/php/php56-dbase                       tfenv
homebrew/php/php56-dbus                        tgui
homebrew/php/php56-dmtx                        the_silver_searcher
homebrew/php/php56-eio                         thefuck
homebrew/php/php56-gearman                     tiff2png
homebrew/php/php56-gmagick                     tig
homebrew/php/php56-gmp                         tika
homebrew/php/php56-graphdat                    tile38
homebrew/php/php56-grpc                        timedog
homebrew/php/php56-htscanner                   tinc
homebrew/php/php56-http                        tinyxml2
homebrew/php/php56-imagick                     tippecanoe
homebrew/php/php56-intl                        tldr
homebrew/php/php56-ioncubeloader               tmux
homebrew/php/php56-jsmin                       tmuxinator-completion
homebrew/php/php56-leveldb                     todolist
homebrew/php/php56-libevent                    todoman
homebrew/php/php56-libvirt                     tomcat
homebrew/php/php56-lz4                         tomcat-native
homebrew/php/php56-mailparse                   tomcat@6
homebrew/php/php56-mcrypt                      tomcat@7
homebrew/php/php56-mecab                       tor
homebrew/php/php56-midgard2                    trace2html
homebrew/php/php56-mongodb                     tracebox
homebrew/php/php56-mosquitto                   trafficserver
homebrew/php/php56-opcache                     trafshow
homebrew/php/php56-pcntl                       transcrypt
homebrew/php/php56-pdflib                      translate-shell
homebrew/php/php56-pdo-dblib                   translate-toolkit
homebrew/php/php56-pdo-pgsql                   treefrog
homebrew/php/php56-phalcon                     tsung
homebrew/php/php56-pimple                      ttfautohint
homebrew/php/php56-proctitle                   tth
homebrew/php/php56-protobuf                    ttyd
homebrew/php/php56-pspell                      twarc
homebrew/php/php56-redis                       twemcache
homebrew/php/php56-redland                     twoping
homebrew/php/php56-snmp                        twtxt
homebrew/php/php56-sodium                      txt2tags
homebrew/php/php56-tidy                        typescript
homebrew/php/php56-timecop                     ucommon
homebrew/php/php56-xdebug                      udunits
homebrew/php/php56-xhprof                      ufoai
homebrew/php/php70-ast                         ufraw
homebrew/php/php70-couchbase                   uhd
homebrew/php/php70-ds                          unbound
homebrew/php/php70-gmp                         uncrustify
homebrew/php/php70-grpc                        unibilium
homebrew/php/php70-imagick                     unison
homebrew/php/php70-intl                        unison@2.40
homebrew/php/php70-ioncubeloader               unrar
homebrew/php/php70-lzf                         upscaledb
homebrew/php/php70-mailparse                   urh
homebrew/php/php70-mcrypt                      urlview
homebrew/php/php70-mongodb                     urweb
homebrew/php/php70-opcache                     v8@3.15
homebrew/php/php70-pcntl                       vagrant-completion
homebrew/php/php70-pdo-dblib                   vala
homebrew/php/php70-pdo-pgsql                   valabind
homebrew/php/php70-phalcon                     vapoursynth
homebrew/php/php70-pspell                      varnish
homebrew/php/php70-rdkafka                     varnish@4
homebrew/php/php70-redis                       vault
homebrew/php/php70-ref                         vault-cli
homebrew/php/php70-snmp                        vbindiff
homebrew/php/php70-ssh2                        vdirsyncer
homebrew/php/php70-tidy                        vert.x
homebrew/php/php70-timecop                     vice
homebrew/php/php70-uopz                        vifm
homebrew/php/php70-v8js                        vim
homebrew/php/php70-xdebug                      vim@7.4
homebrew/php/php70-yaf                         vimpc
homebrew/php/php71                             vips
homebrew/php/php71-ast                         virtualpg
homebrew/php/php71-couchbase                   vncsnapshot
homebrew/php/php71-ds                          vnu
homebrew/php/php71-gmp                         volatility
homebrew/php/php71-grpc                        voldemort
homebrew/php/php71-imagick                     vowpal-wabbit
homebrew/php/php71-intl                        vte3
homebrew/php/php71-mailparse                   w3m
homebrew/php/php71-mcrypt                      wabt
homebrew/php/php71-mongodb                     wakatime-cli
homebrew/php/php71-opcache                     wartremover
homebrew/php/php71-pcntl                       watchexec
homebrew/php/php71-pdo-dblib                   watchman
homebrew/php/php71-pdo-pgsql                   watson
homebrew/php/php71-phalcon                     webdis
homebrew/php/php71-pspell                      weboob
homebrew/php/php71-rdkafka                     webp
homebrew/php/php71-redis                       webpack
homebrew/php/php71-ref                         weechat
homebrew/php/php71-snmp                        wesnoth
homebrew/php/php71-ssh2                        wget
homebrew/php/php71-tidy                        whois
homebrew/php/php71-timecop                     widelands
homebrew/php/php71-uopz                        wildfly-as
homebrew/php/php71-v8js                        wimlib
homebrew/php/php71-xdebug                      wine
homebrew/php/php72                             winetricks
homebrew/php/php72-opcache                     wiredtiger
homebrew/php/php72-pcntl                       wireguard-tools
homebrew/php/php72-pdo-dblib                   wireshark
homebrew/php/php72-pdo-pgsql                   woboq_codebrowser
homebrew/php/phpab                             wolfssl
homebrew/php/phpdox                            wpcli-completion
homebrew/php/phpmyadmin                        wtf
homebrew/php/phpunit                           wxmac
homebrew/php/phpunit@5.7                       x11vnc
homebrew/php/psysh                             x264
homebrew/php/robo                              x265
homebrew/php/terminus                          xa
homebrew/php/wp-cli                            xalan-c
homebrew/php/xdebug-osx                        xapian
hopenpgp-tools                                 xclip
hspell                                         xctool
htmldoc                                        xdot
http_load                                      xerces-c
httpflow                                       xmake
httrack                                        xml-security-c
huexpress                                      xml-tooling-c
hugo                                           xmoto
hunspell                                       xorriso
hydra                                          xplanet
hyper                                          xqilla
hyperscan                                      xrootd
i2p                                            xsane
i3                                             xsd
i3status                                       xsv
ibex                                           yadm
icbirc                                         yara
icdiff                                         yarn
ice                                            yash
icecream                                       yaws
icoutils                                       yaz
ideviceinstaller                               ykneomgr
idnits                                         yle-dl
idris                                          you-get
idutils                                        youtube-dl
imagemagick                                    yubico-piv-tool
imagemagick@6                                  zabbix
imageworsener                                  zanata-client
imapsync                                       zbackup
imlib2                                         zbar
immortal                                       zebra
infer                                          zero-install
influxdb                                       zile
influxdb@0.8                                   zimg
innoextract                                    zint
instead                                        zmqpp
io                                             zookeeper
ios-deploy                                     zorba
ios-sim                                        zsh
ios-webkit-debug-proxy                         zsh-completions
iozone                                         zsh-syntax-highlighting
ipbt                                           zstd
iperf3                                         zurl
==> Renamed Formulae
fbida -> exiftran
gitlab-ci-multi-runner -> gitlab-runner
gmt4 -> gmt@4
gnome-icon-theme -> adwaita-icon-theme
gtef -> tepl
homebrew/php/php70-libsodium -> homebrew/php/php70-libsodium@1.0
homebrew/php/php71-libsodium -> homebrew/php/php71-libsodium@1.0
httpd24 -> httpd
mobile-shell -> mosh
newsbeuter -> newsboat
opencv3 -> opencv
osh -> etsh
root6 -> root
speedtest_cli -> speedtest-cli
srtp@1.5 -> srtp@1.6
thrift@0.90 -> thrift@0.9
transfig -> fig2dev
==> Deleted Formulae
abi-compliance-checker         jpeg@9                         phantomjs@1.92
bchunk                         kafka@0.80                     phantomjs@1.98
elixirscript                   kes                            rexster
gh                             kibana@4.1                     rexster-console
go-gui                         libical-glib                   solr@5.4
htop-osx                       mapnik@2                       szl
jboss-as                       node@0.10                      tcpurify
jboss-as@5                     node@0.12
==> Installation successful!

==> Homebrew has enabled anonymous aggregate user behaviour analytics.
Read the analytics documentation (and how to opt-out) here:
  https://docs.brew.sh/Analytics.html

==> Next steps:
- Run `brew help` to get started
- Further documentation: 
    https://docs.brew.sh
tagamidaiki:~ tagamidaiki$ 
tagamidaiki:~ tagamidaiki$ 
tagamidaiki:~ tagamidaiki$ sudo port uninstall ruby
sudo: port: command not found
tagamidaiki:~ tagamidaiki$ sudo port uninstall ruby
sudo: port: command not found
tagamidaiki:~ tagamidaiki$ sudo su -
tagamidaiki:~ root# which puppet
tagamidaiki:~ root# printenv PATH
/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/sbin
tagamidaiki:~ root# sudo su - tagamidaiki
tagamidaiki:~ tagamidaiki$ #Defaults env_reset
tagamidaiki:~ tagamidaiki$ sudo port uninstall ruby
sudo: port: command not found
tagamidaiki:~ tagamidaiki$ visudo #Defaults env_reset
visudo: /etc/sudoers: Permission denied
tagamidaiki:~ tagamidaiki$ sudo port uninstall ruby
sudo: port: command not found
tagamidaiki:~ tagamidaiki$ sudo su -
tagamidaiki:~ root# visudo #Degaults env_reset

#
# Sample /etc/sudoers file.
#
# This file MUST be edited with the 'visudo' command as root.
#
# See the sudoers man page for the details on how to write a sudoers file.

##
# Override built-in defaults
##
Defaults        env_reset
Defaults        env_keep += "BLOCKSIZE"
Defaults        env_keep += "COLORFGBG COLORTERM"
Defaults        env_keep += "__CF_USER_TEXT_ENCODING"
Defaults        env_keep += "CHARSET LANG LANGUAGE LC_ALL LC_COLLATE LC_CTYPE"
Defaults        env_keep += "LC_MESSAGES LC_MONETARY LC_NUMERIC LC_TIME"
Defaults        env_keep += "LINES COLUMNS"
Defaults        env_keep += "LSCOLORS"
Defaults        env_keep += "SSH_AUTH_SOCK"
Defaults        env_keep += "TZ"
Defaults        env_keep += "DISPLAY XAUTHORIZATION XAUTHORITY"
Defaults        env_keep += "EDITOR VISUAL"
Defaults        env_keep += "HOME MAIL"

Defaults        lecture_file = "/etc/sudo_lecture"

##
# User alias specification
##
# User_Alias    FULLTIMERS = millert, mikef, dowdy

##
# Runas alias specification
##
# Runas_Alias   OP = root, operator

##
# Host alias specification
##
# Host_Alias    CUNETS = 128.138.0.0/255.255.0.0
# Host_Alias    CSNETS = 128.138.243.0, 128.138.204.0/24, 128.138.242.0
# Host_Alias    SERVERS = master, mail, www, ns
# Host_Alias    CDROM = orion, perseus, hercules

##
# Cmnd alias specification
##
# Cmnd_Alias    PAGERS = /usr/bin/more, /usr/bin/pg, /usr/bin/less

##
# User specification
##

# root and users in group wheel can run anything on any machine as any user
root            ALL = (ALL) ALL
%admin          ALL = (ALL) ALL

## Read drop-in files from /private/etc/sudoers.d
## (the '#' here does not indicate a comment)
#includedir /private/etc/sudoers.d
~                                                                                            
~                                                                                            
~                                                                                            
~                                                                                            
~                                                                                            
~                                                                                            
~                                                                                            
~                                                                                            
~                                                                                            

